## Topics covered:

1. What is microservices architecture ?
2. Challenges with microservices.
3. Design patterns for handling such challenges.
4. Software enablers that help us tackle such challenges.

### Autonomous Software components ?

- Decomposing platform's functionality into a set of autonomous softeare components.
- This has some benefits like :
    1. Deploying parts of these components into another system landscape.
    2. Replace some these components with own implementations.
    3. The ability to update the version od each component independently from other components (thanks to the well defined API of each component)
    4. Each component could be scaled independently to handle high volume of load, without scaling other components.

- This also has some pifalls like: 

    1. Adding New instances required alot of manual work.
    2. Communication was error prone, if some component failed (mainly the communication was sync). this causes some of the components to run out of OS thread 
    3. Monitoring status of all instances was very hard.
    4. aggregating logs from these components and analyzing them was also a very tedious job.

### Definition Of Microservices: 

- Microservices is about splitting up monolithic apps into smaller components which achieves two major goals: 
    1. Faster development, enabling continous deployments.
    2. Easier to scale.

- For a software to be autonomous it must fulfill certain criteria: 

    1. It must conform with the shared-nothing architecture, that is, No microservice share its data with other services in the same database.
    2. It must communicate (sync or preferably async) in a well defined API. In case Async-communication, well documented messages are defined, and follow well defined versioning criteria for evolving.
    3. It must be deployed in a separate runtime process, e.g. Docker container.
    4. Microservices should be stateless, which means requests coming to certain instance, could also be handled by other instances.

### Challenges: 

- Many components communicating synchronously could cause chain of failures.
- Keeping configuration up to date for each instance is costly operation and hard one.
- It is hard to track a request being processed for root cause analysis, as each service keeps its logs locally.
- Analyizing Hardware utilization for a component (service) is challenging.
- Manual configuration and management of many small components can become costly and error-prone.
- A hidden challenge is that building microservices means we are building a distributed system, which in nature is ver challenging. There are 8 fallacies that we always assume when building distributed system : 

    1. The network is reliable.
    2. Latency is Zero.
    3. Bandwidth is infinite.
    4. The Network is secure.
    5. Topology does not change.
    6. There is one administrator.
    7. Transport cost is zero.
    8. The network is homogeneous.

-  when we design microservices, we should keep in mind these fallacies because they are going to happen one time or another, so our design should be resilient (don't send requests to failed instances, and resume requests when the problem is corrected).

### Design Patterns for Microservices:

- This list is not a comprehensive list of all patterns used to solve the challenges with microservices, but a minimal one.
- These patterns apply to microservices communicating in sync or async way.

#### 1. Service Discovery: 

##### Problem: 

- How can a client (another service) find other microservices and their instances and make calls to them?

##### Solution:

- Introduce a new component to the landscape called `Service Discovery Service`, which keeps track of the available microservices and the IP addresses of its instances.

##### Solution Requirements: 

- Automaticaly register/unregoster services as they come and go.
- All requests to a microservice should be done to a logical endpoint, and then this request is routed to one of the instances available.
- Requests to a microservice should be load balanced over the available instances.
- Detect instances that are down and prevent requests from being routed to them.

There are two ways of doing this service discovery solution:

- **Client-Side Routing**: The client (another service) uses a library that communicate with service discovery component to find proper intances to send the request to.

- **Server-Side Routing**: The infrastructure of the service discovery component exposes a reverse proxy that all requests are sent to. The service proxy forwards the requests to a proper microservice instance on behalf of the client.

#### 2. Edge Server:

##### Problem : 

- In the microservices architecure, sometimes, it is desirable to make some services available for public access and other services are only meant for internal usage. These publically accessable services should be protected.

##### Solution: 

- Introduce a new component to the landscape called an Edge-Server

##### Solution Requirements: 

- Only route requests that are meant for public microservices and reject any other requests.

- Expose external services and protect them using standard protocols and best practices like OAuth, OIDC, JWT tokens, or API keys to make sure the client is trustworthy.

#### 3. Reactive Microservices: 

##### Problem : 

- using traditional synchronous programming mean s that a service could use all the allocated OS threads causing it to be slower in responding to other services.
- This also will make clients communicating this slow service to consume their OS threads, and a *chain of failures* happens.

##### Solution: 

- Use Non-Blocking I/O to ensure no threads are allocated while waiting for processing to occur in another service e.g databse query.

##### Solution Requirements: 

- Use async programming model whenever feasible.
- If sync programming is prefered, use reactive frameworks to ensure that sync requests also use blocking I/O while waiting for  response from other service  (Event Loop)
- Microservices Should be resilient, meaning, Even if there is a failure with some service, The system should be able to produce a response.

#### 4. Central Configuration:

##### Problem: 

- Traditionally, An app was deployed with all its config files, env variables ...etc, But in a microservices architecure, we have so many instances runing and we want to make sure that all instances have the right configuration.
- Also when we need to update these configs and make sure that all services are updated correctly.

##### Solution:

- Introduce a configuration server that contains all config files for the microservices.

##### Solution Requirements: 

- Store configurations information for a group of microservices in one place with different setting for different environments (dev, prod, stage)


#### 5. Centralized Log Analysis:

##### Problem: 

- Traditonally, A monolith App would store its logs locally on the machine it running on, but with thwn microservices architecture, we have many instances writing logs locally.
- How can we get a an overview of what is going on in the system landscape?
- How can we analyze the root cause of a problem?
- How to check if one microservice got into trouble and starts to log errors?

##### Solution:

- Add a new component that manage centralized logging.

##### Solution requirements:

- It should provide some graphical tools for querying and analyzing logs events.
- Detect new microservices instances and start collecting log events from them.
- Interpret and sort the logs in a structured and searchable way i a central database.

#### 6. Distributed Tracing:

##### Problem: 

- tracking requests and messages between microservices must be possible, to enable debugging faults that occur in runtime, for example, a user filing a case about a specific order. How could we debug the lifecycle of the request of that order?

##### Solution: 

-  Every request/message between different microservices must have a `CorrelationID`, anf this id must be part of every log event.
- Also Adding Business-related identifier to the log event associated with this CorrelationID gives us the ability to debug faster and in a more efficient way.

##### Solution Requirements:

-  This `CorrelationID`should be attached with every request/message in a well-known place, like a header with a very specific name.

- CorrelationID and business-related ID should be written in the log event in a predefined format, so that the central logging service can extract them and make them searchable.


#### 7. Circuit Breaker

##### Problem :

- A system of Microservices utilizing a blocking I/O way of communication, could fail if one of these services gets overwhelmed by the high volume of requests causing it to consume all threads from the pool. And in return any service communicating with it will also wait and consume its thread pool.

- the above behavior is called chain of failure.

##### Solution: 

- Add Circuit breaker to the system to detect failures and fail fast (prevent the request to the down service).

##### Solution requirements: 

- Open the Circuit and fail fast for any call to a down service.
- Probe the service if it was healed, but don't open the circuit, just *half-open* it. Meaning only allow a single request to pass.
- If the service is up again, close the service.

#### 8. Control Loop:

##### Problem: 

- it is very hard to manually detect and correct problems for a hung or crashed service in a microservices architecture.

##### Solution:

- Introduce a new component called Control-Loop.
- It Checks the system for a desired state (yaml files in case of k8s) and compare the current state with it.
- If the two state are different, the control loop will adjust the system to look like the desired state.
- In the world of containers, Container orchestrator like k8s does this job.

#### 9. Centralized Monitoring And Alarms:

##### Problem:

- Monitoring hardware (e.g. CPU utilization) for microservices is hard is done on service by service basis.

##### Solution: 

- Introduce a new component called monitor service, which collects metrics from the instances.

##### Solution Requirements:

- Provide API and graphical interface to visualize the metrics.
- Detect and collect data from newly running instances.
- Collect data from all services even those of auto-scaling groups.











### Software Enablers:

1. Service Discovery&emsp;&emsp;&emsp;&emsp;&emsp;&emsp;&emsp;&emsp;&emsp;&emsp;: Netflix Eureka and Ribbon, K8s kube-proxy and service resources.

2. Edge Server&emsp;&emsp;&emsp;&emsp;&emsp;&emsp;&emsp;&emsp;&emsp;&emsp;&emsp;&emsp;&emsp;: K8s Ingress controller, Spring Cloud and spring Security OAuth, ISTIO ingress gateway.

3. Reactive microservices&emsp;&emsp;&emsp;&emsp;&emsp;&emsp;&emsp;: Spring Reactor and Spring WebFlux.

4. Central Configurations&emsp;&emsp;&emsp;&emsp;&emsp;&emsp;&emsp;: Spring Config Server, K8s ConfigMaps and Secrets.

5. Centralized Log analysis&emsp;&emsp;&emsp;&emsp;&emsp;&emsp;: Elasticsearch, Kibana, FluentID.

6. Distributed Tracing&emsp;&emsp;&emsp;&emsp;&emsp;&emsp;&emsp;&emsp;&emsp;: Zipkin, Sleuth (spring).

7. Circuit Breaker&emsp;&emsp;&emsp;&emsp;&emsp;&emsp;&emsp;&emsp;&emsp;&emsp;&emsp;: Istio Outlier detection, Resilience4j, Hystrix.

8. Control Loop&emsp;&emsp;&emsp;&emsp;&emsp;&emsp;&emsp;&emsp;&emsp;&emsp;&emsp;&emsp;: K8s Controller Manager.

9. Centralized Monitoring and alarms  : Grafana and Prometheus, Kiali

### Other Considerations:

- Importance of Dev/Ops teams, and having an automated delivery pipeline.
- Allowing continous delivery of new versions
- The responsbility is both on the ops and dev teams.
<br />
- Traditional organization of teams by expertise (UI, Backens, DB) is not applicable anymore.
- Teams should be organized per microservice or group of related microservices.
<br />
- Decomposing Monolith to microservices architecture is a big decision and if made wrong could result in slow delivery, slow performance, and data inconsistency.
- Domain Driven Design should be used here and bound the microservice by its context (Bounded Context is a concept of the DDD).
<br />
- Importance of API design, and have description for every endpoint.
- Follow the same description, datatypes, ... if the same concept is applied in multiple APIs.
- Maintain different versions of the API.
- Check this [12factors](https://12factor.net/) design principles for building SW that is meant to be deployed in the cloud.