### Spring platform:

- This platform was introduced to solve the infamous heavyweight deployment descriptors of J2EE.
- Spring Boot is part of the Spring Framework.
- Spring I=introduced the idea of Dependency Injection, which made development much omre light weight.
- Spring boot uses *convention over configuration* design pattern, that is, the framework setup all core modules and 3rd libraries without the need of any configuration files.
- Any convention could be overriden by a small config file.
- Spring supports fat JAR files(files that include the application and al its dependencies in one file) and also WAR files (files that need some J2EE server to host it, like Apache Tomcat)

#### Examples of convention-based autoconfig:

- This pattern of convention is intiated by annotating the application class with `@SpringBootApplication` annotation.

```java

@SpringBootApplication
public class MyApp {
    public static void main(string[] args) {
        SpringApplication.run(MyApp.class, args)
    }
}

```

- This annotation enables the following: 
1. component scanning, meaning, looking for Spring components and configuration in the app class package and in the sub packages (folders).
2. Application class itself becomes a config class.
3. Enable spring boot to look in the classpath for JAR files that it can enable automatically. For example if timcat was in the classpath, Spring will autoconfigure it as an embedded web server.

- Component Scanning by Spring enables dependency injection.
- DI could be achieved in three main ways, Field, Setter, and Constructor Injection.
- Field and setter DI uses the `@AutoWired`annotation coming from Spring.
- Always prefer to use constructor DI, as it makes the state of the components immutable and thread safe.
- `@ComponentScan`annotation tells spring to include components from a package outside the application package

```java

@SpringBootApplication
@ComponentScan({"com.majid.otherpackage"})
public class MyApp {
    public static void main(string[] args) {
        SpringApplication.run(MyApp.class, args)
    }
}

```

- Annotating a class with `@Configuration` makes it available to all other components by the component scanning mechanism, and this decorator is useful when we want to override some default Spring config. [Note: Application class also become config class by SpringBootApplication annot.]

---

### Spring WebFlux

- Spring Boot is based on Spring framework, whcich came with built in support for building reactive appliations.
- Spring Framework uses **Project Reactor** as the base implementation of reactive programming, and comes with a new web framework called Spring WebFlux which supports the development of reactive services and HTTP clients.
- Spring WeFlux supports two types of programming models:
  1. Annotation-based imperative style: Similar to Spring Web MVC, but supports reactive services.
  2. Function oriented model based on routers and handlers.

- Spring WebFlux comes with `Webclient` which is a reacrive HTTP client as a replacement for the `RestTemplate`client.
- Spring WebFlux also supports running on a servlet container (v3.1 or higher) and also supports reactive non-servlet embeded web servers such as Netty.io

---

### Spring Fox:

- This an open source project separate from the Spring Framework.
- Used to build Swagger based API documentation at runtime based on swagger annotations.

---

### Spring Data:

- This is a common programming model for storing data in various types of datastores (SQL, NoSQL).
- Spring Data project is divided into sub-projects, each for a different datastore.
- It relies on two main concepts: 

  1. Entity: Describe the data to be stored by Spring Data.
  Entity classesare annotated by a mix of Spring Data generic annotations and database technnology specific annotations.
  
  2. Repository: These classes are used to store and access data from different types of databases.
  Naming convention of the methods in a class that implements Repository is defined by Spring Data to be able to generate method implementation at runtime.
  Reactive Non-blocking repositories implementations are available, but not for all databases. These Repos return `Flux`and `Mono`datatypes.

---

### Spring Cloud Stream:

- this part of the spring cloud project.
- Spring Cloud Stream comes with integration with RabbitMQ and Kafka out of the box.
- It has these core concepts:
    1. Message : Data structure that is used to describe data sent and received.
    2. Publisher : Sends messages to broker.
    3. Subscriber : Receives Messages from broker.
    4. Channel : Used to communicate with the messaging broker (input and output channels)
    5. Binder : Provides the actual intergartion with a specific message broker.
    
     



































